notes.md, before:

Express setup
1) install nodemon globally: npm install -g nodemon

2) add script for 'dev' command in package.json file: "dev": "nodemon" 
  - this allows you to run 'npm run dev' to start the server listening to the port

  - now we need to create something to react to the requests => create a route

3) add route to handle requests that were 'heard'

4) USE environment variable instead of hardcoding the port number
  - add to gitignore
  - need to install node package: npm install dotenv

5) require the dotenv package into server.js file

6) Can now use Postman app to try out different requests (before building them)
  - simulates requests to the server (routes from the API)  

7) Register middleware to log requests


8) Set up routes and route handler fxns
  - can do it in server but cleaner to have own routes folder
  - require them into the server.js file

9) Test routes in Postman
  - get, post, delete, patch endpoints should all return the dummy json text successfully

10) Work on DB
  - set up free online mongodb.com/atlas/database
  - start a new cluster and copy the URL

11) Connect to DB!
  - Install Mongoose to connect to DB
  - helps work on db
  - require mongoose in server.js file
  - connect in server.js file using connection uri
    - check to see if bad env variable shows auth fail

Now we can start interacting w/DB to retrieve, update data (done inside route handler fxns)

12) Create a Schema
  - new models folder, workout.js file
  - need mongoose to create schemas, so require mongoose package.

13) Create a Model

14) use model to create a new document (workout)
  - use a try catch set up
  - define the POST route

15) Test Post route in Postman
  - Body, (raw w/ JSON body)

16) Set up Controller file
  - import the model file
  - when a Post request comes in (routes), we fire the createWorkout fxn (controller)

17) Write fxns to be imported into routes
  - test in postman

18) Use React to make requests to back end API
  - create-react-app frontend  <-- this installs packages and creates folder
  - install react packages 
  - delete unecessary files and imports

19) Install React Router Dom package
  - to add diff pages to application later 
  - in the front end folder: npm install react-router-dom 
    - don't audit fix!

20) Page runs but have 2 different servers running 
  - one for backend (npm run dev) -< dont forget mongodb.com needs to be running
  - one for frontend (npm start)
  - but requests between the two are blocked for security reasons (cross origin request)
    - can get around when developing:
      - install CORS package OR add proxy field to front end package.json file!

21) Create  new components for Workout Details and Workout Form

22) Adding data works but page doesnt update automatically - need to refresh to see it
  - need to update local state to keep it in sync with db
    - React Context needed to do that!
      - way to provide global state to many diff compenents then we can update that state by dispatching actions from those components
      -Create a context to manage the state

23)

Commit message:

delete button and function added, no refresh though

notes.md, after:

Express setup
1) install nodemon globally: npm install -g nodemon

2) add script for 'dev' command in package.json file: "dev": "nodemon" 
  - this allows you to run 'npm run dev' to start the server listening to the port

  - now we need to create something to react to the requests => create a route

3) add route to handle requests that were 'heard'

4) USE environment variable instead of hardcoding the port number
  - add to gitignore
  - need to install node package: npm install dotenv

5) require the dotenv package into server.js file

6) Can now use Postman app to try out different requests (before building them)
  - simulates requests to the server (routes from the API)  

7) Register middleware to log requests


8) Set up routes and route handler fxns
  - can do it in server but cleaner to have own routes folder
  - require them into the server.js file

9) Test routes in Postman
  - get, post, delete, patch endpoints should all return the dummy json text successfully

10) Work on DB
  - set up free online mongodb.com/atlas/database
  - start a new cluster and copy the URL

11) Connect to DB!
  - Install Mongoose to connect to DB
  - helps work on db
  - require mongoose in server.js file
  - connect in server.js file using connection uri
    - check to see if bad env variable shows auth fail

Now we can start interacting w/DB to retrieve, update data (done inside route handler fxns)

12) Create a Schema
  - new models folder, workout.js file
  - need mongoose to create schemas, so require mongoose package.

13) Create a Model

14) use model to create a new document (workout)
  - use a try catch set up
  - define the POST route

15) Test Post route in Postman
  - Body, (raw w/ JSON body)

16) Set up Controller file
  - import the model file
  - when a Post request comes in (routes), we fire the createWorkout fxn (controller)

17) Write fxns to be imported into routes
  - test in postman

18) Use React to make requests to back end API
  - create-react-app frontend  <-- this installs packages and creates folder
  - install react packages 
  - delete unecessary files and imports

19) Install React Router Dom package
  - to add diff pages to application later 
  - in the front end folder: npm install react-router-dom 
    - don't audit fix!

20) Page runs but have 2 different servers running 
  - one for backend (npm run dev) -< dont forget mongodb.com needs to be running
  - one for frontend (npm start)
  - but requests between the two are blocked for security reasons (cross origin request)
    - can get around when developing:
      - install CORS package OR add proxy field to front end package.json file!

21) Create  new components for Workout Details and Workout Form

22) Adding data works but page doesnt update automatically - need to refresh to see it
  - need to update local state to keep it in sync with db
    - React Context needed to do that!
      - way to provide global state to many diff compenents then we can update that state by dispatching actions from those components
      -Create a context to manage the state

23) Set up Context for use in global states
  - front end state is now in sync with db so it updates frontend and db at same time

24) Delete button
  - click sends delete request to the API which communicates with mongo db to delete that doc
  - also need to update global workout state to delete as well
    - use dispatch fxn to do that
